hello everyone August is almost over so
it's time for another Q&A which is
number six already in this public Q&A
I'll talk about the shadow because my
recent video about this topic got a lot
of questions and feedback I think that's
a great sign because it's a new topic I
brought up on this channel and many
people seem to be interested in it in
this video I will present four examples
of shadow behavior
first of all I want to thank Martin
Jesse and Gabriel for supporting me on
patreon very much appreciated guys and I
wish you lots of eudaimonia now let's
dive in I want to dedicate this public
Q&A to a question I got from su Kwong
swish and sook sounds quite German like
my channel name and I found this
question in the comment section I quote
what are some examples of this shadow
and quote nothing there's a lot to say
about this because the shadow can
manifest itself in many ways I should
also add that not everything that
resides in the shadow is negative a
negative manifestation of the shadow
could be sexually repressed feelings for
example in people that have become
bitter in regards to relationships and
at the same time have deep desire for
intimacy their bitterness caused them to
shut the door to romantic endeavors and
repress any feelings that might lead
towards that including the sexual ones
the problem lies not in celibacy it lies
in the fact that repressed unwanted
feelings and thoughts go unchecked and
thus they are put in the shadow now I
believe that celibacy is perfectly
possible if you're somehow able to
transcend or dissolve these feelings but
if you're pushing them into the shadow
there will be trouble ahead a
manifestation of the shadow in this
regard could be a hidden addiction to
pornography together with the shame and
often the material that this person
looks for online becomes more and more
extreme an extreme case of repressed
sexuality is the example I gave him a
first video about the shadow the priest
that carries the persona of purity and
servant of the Lord that can't keep his
hands to himself because he isn't able
to cope with his carnal desires there
are also positive things to find in the
shadow an example of this could be
creativity in the artistic sense you
know in some families there's this
contempt for creativity and the parents
push their children into directions that
are more secure in regards to money but
if this creativity somehow is part of
you then it wants to come out if
eventually however because it's
associated with taboo then people will
push it away and so it becomes part of
the shadow so again what the shadow
comprises of is unique for everyone
what's more clear is how the shadow
manifests itself also called shadow
behaviors I found some interesting
information on a website named hai
existence I've put a link in the
description that listed seven examples
of shadow behavior I'll list four of
them and share my thoughts one a
tendency to harshly judge others this is
judging people because deep down you're
afraid that people will judge you in
that harsh way it's reassuring that
you're on the side of the judge instead
of the judged that's why people that
were bullied often turn into bullies
themselves they think that as long as
they bully other people they evade
bullying themselves too pointing out
one's own insecurities as flaws in
another I've talked about this in my
previous video about the shadow and I
gave the example from the movie American
Beauty in which Colin L Fitz expresses
his homophobia while he himself is gay
he sees his homosexuality as a flaw so
he represses it and pointed out in
others at the same time this is called
projection we can also see this with
parents and their children in some cases
parents see their own shortcomings in
their children and are extra judgmental
about it a father who's a liar may
punish his child extra heart because of
lying simply because he is confronted
with himself internet trolling is
another example it's like people hate to
see other people somehow getting away
with just presenting themselves the way
they present themselves probably because
these trolls are afraid to do that
themselves basically what happens with
projection is that people see their own
darkness in others 3 a quick temper with
people in subordinate positions of power
this one makes me think about a chain of
screaming which is a theory presented by
Barney Stinson in a television series
How I Met Your Mother
Marshall one of the main characters was
yelled at by his boss named Arthur now
Barney explains that author's boss
boss is yelled at by her boss and that
she in turn yells at Arthur's boss
so Arthur's boss yells at author and
author yells at Marshall Marshall then
yells at his wife Lily
so Lily yells at the kids in
kindergarten where she works and one of
the kids yells at a father who happens
to be Arthur's boss's boss so except for
the kid yelling at her father and
Marshall yelling at his wife we see that
people tend to take their anger out
towards people of lower positions of
power I have first-hand experiences with
this after working in customer service
for many years a guy named John reminded
me of this in the comment section and I
quote people in customer service have
the darkest shadows since they are
always forced to put on a happy demeanor
regardless of inner turmoil and quote
well yes I mean when you do that kind of
work the risk of having a dense shadow
is high if you cannot take the nasty
customers would like to exercise power
over someone who can't fight back
because he or she needs to stay polite
simply put any mood other than happy or
at least neutral is considered bad
customer service employees are basically
fighting at the front lines where the
most blood is spilt while the managers
don't even get to talk to an angry
customer
they basically hide behind the wall of
customer service making all the
decisions but I digress most of the
times when I had to speak to angry
customers I just thought afterwards hmm
he's probably on a short leash or she's
probably yelled at by her boss when I
moved slightly upwards in the hierarchy
within the same organization I saw that
my new colleagues often had a quick
temper with our subordinates just
because they finally could exercise some
power as a way to compensate for their
own feelings of powerlessness for
frequently playing the victim of every
situation so this is simply a way to
prevent being exposed as something you
don't want to be that behind the persona
hides something that you don't want the
world to see playing the victim is just
another strategy to accomplish this by
playing the victim you're not seen as
bad and you don't have to take
responsibility I know a few people
my personal life who do this first they
create havoc and then they wear the
victim mentality on their sleeves as a
badge of honor people that are fooled by
their facade provide them with empathy
comfort support etc without being aware
of the monster that lurks in the dark
laughing all the way to the bank anyways
if you want to read more about the
shadow I would advise you to check out
the links I've provided in my
description there's also a youtube
channel named the diamond net which goes
very deep into the shadow very
interesting stuff in a patron edition of
the Q&A I will answer more questions
subjects include the first thing I do in
the morning mindfulness the logos and a
bit more about the shadow that's it
thank you for watching
[Music]
you